In the contemporary landscape of AI, numerous large language models
exist, including notable examples such as Chat, GPT, and Gemini, but
also open source models like Llama and Falcon, among many others. Now,
to optimize these models for specific applications, customization is
essential. Currently, there are three prominent techniques for tailoring a
language model to meet particular use cases. These are
widely recognized, and they are prompt engineering, fine tuning, and rag, which
means retrieval, augmented generation and I'll describe these
techniques in this video. The first technique, prompt engineering,
focuses on customizing input prompts. This means designing
and refining prompts to elicit specific types of responses
from a language model. Effective prompt engineering involves
selecting appropriate keywords, providing contextual information,
and structuring the input in a manner that encourages the model to
produce the desired output. And this technique is often
regarded as the most successful, the most cost effective method
for customization, requiring relatively minimal effort. The
efficient use of prompt engineering is critical in guiding a model's behavior towards
a specific outcome or outcomes. Consequently, when you're faced
with the need to customize a model, practitioners are well. You're advised
first of all to prioritize prompt engineering, being able to prompt in an
appropriate manner. Describing this at a surface level,
the primary approaches to prompt engineering are zero shot learning, one shot learning, and few shot
learning. Zero shot learning refers to the model's ability to generalize and
make predictions on unseen classes or tasks, and where no
examples are provided. And in such cases, a prompt has to be
formatted to guide the model effectively despite the absence of examples.
So, for example, you might instruct the model to classify a given text as either religious or
political, providing only the input text for analysis, and that might be good enough.
So even though the model lacks explicit examples of what constitutes religious or
political content, it may still be able to infer the necessary distinctions based
on these contextual hints in this zero shot
prompt. Now, in comparison, in foosh prompting, this involves
providing the model with a limited number of examples. For example, if an
organization possesses a vast collection of PDF documents and seeks to identify
those containing specific keywords, it can supply the model with a few examples of
such keywords, and this approach will allow the model to gain context and
better understand the nature of the task at hand. So that's prompt
and prompt engineering. The second technique, fine tuning, is a more resource
intensive process, and this should only be employed after you know you've had initial
attempts at prompting engineering and seeing what that is on the foundational
model. Now, fine tuning enables the model to use its
broad capabilities whilst incorporating customizations that involve
training the model on some proprietary documents. This technique is
particularly useful when specific business needs necessitate a more tailored
approach, and fine tuning can be categorized into two different types,
instruction based and domain based. Instruction based fine
tuning utilizes labeled examples of of data to enhance the performance of
a pre trained model on a specific task, and these examples are formatted
as pairs of prompts and responses, often phrased as explicit
instructions. This process modifies the model's weights,
distinguishing it from prompt engineering, which doesn't alter the embedded weights of
a large language model per se. Domain based
fine tuning, also known as domain adaptation. This allows practitioners to
adapt pre trained foundation models to specific tasks
using limited domain specific data.
This technique is particularly advantageous in specialized fields such as
medicine, where the model can be fine tuned with medical specific
terminology and examples. Finally, then we have the
third technique, and this is rag, which means retrieval
augmented generation or retrieved augmented generation, and
this enhances prompts by integrating information from multiple data
sources. So here's a brief breakdown. Initially you
have the user prompt and the process starts with this. It then goes to the retrieval system. This
could be, you know, known as copilot or chat GPT or
whatever application you're using, and this performs a semantic search.
Then within a document repository, the relevant documents. The system retrieves
relevant documents extracted from various repositories such as the company's wikis
or customer relationship management systems and SharePoint and such. The
extracted data undergoes transformation through techniques such as chunking. This
identifies the linguistic components and is subsequently converted into
embeddings. And these are embeddings are numerical representations of text
within a vector space. These embeddings are stored in a vector. Database, allowing
the rag model to compare the user query embeddings with those in the knowledge
library. And additionally, knowledge libraries and their corresponding embeddings can
be updated as well. The original prompt is then
augmented with relevant contextual information from similar documents, which is
then submitted to the foundation model. So that's a
quick overview. There. There's more detail which will be provided later on in one of the
other videos. Now let's recap the three techniques for customizing language models, their prompt
engineering, fine tuning, and rag retrieving retrieved augmented
generation, and they're employed in that specific order
in terms of how you wish to develop it. Now, practitioners and this are encouraged to
initiate the customization process with prompt engineering. If this proves
insufficient, then fine tuning could be pursued and followed by a
rag model if necessary, combined together with the fine tune method.
Now, some people consider practitioners from what I've read, consider
fine tuning a rag to be equally viable options, but from also
what my understanding is in current industry trends suggest a growing
preference for rag models. But as the field of AI and
generative AI evolves, it's likely that new techniques will also emerge in the near future that might
not need these as well.